The task now is to go and get the user
from our API and verify it exists.
So, the first well,
it may not have to be the first thing we do,
but we have to go and get the user at some point.
So, what I'm gonna do is
const user equals get user, okay?
And I'm gonna create a new function
and we're gonna use the fetch API
so import from unfetch, whatever it's called.
There we go.
Const res equals fetch
and we have an API, woops
user, okay?
Const API equals process dot env API.
And my development API is this, okay?
So I'm running locally in my package.
I'm running locally with npm run dev server
which is just running kind of like API end point
and that will be, when we go to production
this will actually be the same as the location.
Same URL.
So, then we're gonna do, sorry not
we're gonna do await.
So it's gonna be an async function.
And we're gonna do return await.
Well actually we can just do return res dot json.
Okay, so this will be user equals await.
And what we wanna do here is
instead of just passing props back
we want to include the user.
So we're going to spread the props
and include the user here.
Okay, so the idea is we're gonna get a user
and it's just going to go back out.
And to auth, I've got this URL local host 3001 auth.
And that will take me through GitHub.
It skipped it but,
that took me through GitHub
and completed an authenticated session.
So, how do we prove that?
I can go to local host 3001 user.
Okay so that's what we're expecting to see, okay?
So now that we're authenticated,
what's happened?
Should we maybe log this out to see what we're looking at?
Console dot log user.
Okay, so let's have a look at the dev tools.
So undock that so we can actually see what we're doing.
So, let's click home.
Okay, so we have a 401.
So, to start off with, this fetch by itself is not enough.
We need to pass in some options.
Okay, so it's worth familiarising yourself
with the fetch API.
It's kinda of a standard way of doing things these days.
I need to do credentials include.
So that means it gonna send the cookies
that it has set for port 3001.
So, let's bring up the dev tools again.
Lot of stuff there with the user.
There it is.
Okay, so just adding that credentials
means that it appears and it works.
Okay, so that means that
this we pass back into this props will include the user
and if we actually look at the dev tools for that,
go to React and inspect our element.
So, here we go.
This is the one that we're looking at.
There's the user with all the information we want.
That API key is actually
we shouldn't be passing that back.
I think the stuff you pass back
should actually just include what you need to be on display,
not any kind of secret tokens.
That's probably a no-no.
Possibly email addresses as well
is something you don't want to pass back,
but this is just a demo for the time being.
So, we want the avatar to appear up here,
so we're just going to go to the header
and that's not receiving any props at the moment.
So we want the user go in as well.
And I'm just gonna pop it straight into here.
Image source equals user dot avatar, okay.
And I'm gonna check if...
Yeah so it says undefined.
So the user here is an empty object.
It's because my header,
the layout I don't think is not passing any props.
Yep, here we go.
So you wanna pass in the props
and notice we don't have the props up here.
We got the title which is intended for this component.
We're just going to capture
the rest of the properties in that one argument.
And we're gonna check our index page.
You see layout here also doesn't have any props.
So we're gonna do that.
So we're basically just passing all the props around.
Wow there we go.
Pretty big or a bit too big?
Let's import some CSS.
Header dot CSS.
And let's make that file maybe.
Let's see, who got that file?
Yeah, we got the file.
There we go. It's a bit better.
Oh, really small. Really, really small.
Height and width 200, 300?
Let's get rid of this.
Well, anyway the point is it is appearing.
I don't know why that's so small,
but it's still up there
and if we go to the header
we can probably include.
Let's just do, I don't know.
Well, actually I do know.
Div class name equals user nav.
Let's put user name in there as well.
User dot user name.
Okay, so it's looking a bit better.
Okay, so we got the user name in there,
but there is another problem.
So, with user is using fetch to get that credential.
If I hit refresh, we get kind of an odd response here.
Now, let's have a look.
See if there's any errors.
No errors.
I think this user object is not what we think it is.
So I'm gonna log out res dot status.
In fact, actually I'm going to say
if res dot status is equal to 200, i.e. it worked,
we're gonna return json.
Otherwise, we're going to throw an exception.
Not found.
Well, failed res dot status.
Okay, so let's have a look at what happens.
So, this works.
No error, or at least none I can see.
Let's have a look on the server side though.
Let's hit refresh.
Alright, this is breaking.
This is breaking because
it's sending credentials on the server side it doesn't have.
There are no credentials on the server side.
So this credentials include, it's saying
it's trying to send some cookies with it.
But it doesn't work, right?
That's the same as me doing a cold window,
an incognito window to the user.
This is what the server is seeing.
Because no cookies are being sent,
it can't make the request.
So the whole thing fails, right?
And because it's on a different origin,
we can't just reuse the cookies that we have.
So we need to somehow get a session token into there.
A session token, no but a bearer token
in the request that we can share
between the client side and the server side.
So, when I complete the auth,
the auth process actually gives me a bearer token back.
What I need to do is capture that,
stick it in a cookie,
and then let the client and the server use that cookie
to send off to the third party server.
The API server.
And this is important.
The only thing that's shared between
the client side and the server side are cookies.
If I store something in local storage,
or I have HTTP only cookies,
that means that one side can't see it.
Local storage, only the clients can see it,
but the server can't.
And HTTP cookies, only the server can see it,
but the client can't.
So, in the next video,
we're gonna look at actually capturing a token,
setting that to a cookie,
so that both sides can read it.
And then using that in this request,
so that it's able to make the API call
both on the server side and on the client side.